In this lecture, we are going to toggle the links from within the editor.
The client should be able to view the effects of our controls on the block.
At the moment, the block will continue to render the log and link.
Changing the settings does not affect the templates.
This behavior may confuse clients.
We should dynamically add or remove these links from the templates.
Tackling this problem is nothing new to us.
Therefore, I want you to tackle this problem as an exercise.
The log and link should be hidden if the dropdown is set to no.
The same goes for the checkbox.
As a hint, you can use ternary operators to help you toggle the elements in the block, pause the video
and give it a try.
Good luck.
Welcome back.
Hopefully you are able to implement a solution for toggling the links in the block.
If not, that's fine.
Let's go through the solution together in your editor.
Open the index dot js file.
We are going to modify the templates.
You can find the log link by searching for an anchor element with a class called Sign in Link.
Before this element, let's add an expression.
The expression will be the following show off question mark colon.
We are using the show off attribute to check if we should display the log in link.
Let's move the anchor element after question mark character.
Next, let's add a no value after the colon character.
This exercise may have been tricky for some of you.
We haven't discussed what you should do if you don't have a template to display.
In these cases you can add a null value by adding null.
WordPress will not render anything, which is what we want.
However, there's another solution you could have tried in the wild.
You may see a different solution for conditionally rendering a template.
Adding a new value can feel like extra work.
We're adding an additional line of code to tell react, not to render anything.
It would be nice if we could omit this line of code.
Luckily, there's a different solution for this scenario.
Let's remove the null value and colon character.
Next, let's replace the question mark character with the end operator.
So far we've been dealing with a single condition.
What if we want two conditions within a single statement?
The and operator allows us to check two conditions.
If both conditions aren't meant, nothing happens.
The and operator is written with two ampersand characters.
In this example, the first conditional statement will never run.
The first condition is true, however, the second condition is false.
Therefore, Java scripts will not execute the block of code.
And the second example both conditions evaluate to true.
As a result, the block of code will run.
That's great.
But how does this apply to our code?
We're using a hack.
Technically, we're not supposed to use JavaScript in this manner.
The and operator can be used outside of a conditional statement.
It can be used in an expression.
JavaScript will run the expression from left to right.
It'll check if the show off attribute is true.
If it is, it'll run the second condition.
However, our second condition is the templates.
This will cause JavaScript to output the templates.
What if these show off attribute was false?
JavaScript follows a fast exit strategy.
If a condition is false, subsequent conditions are never checked.
It doesn't matter if the other conditions evaluate to false.
This behavior boosts the performance of JavaScript.
Makes sense, right?
It doesn't matter if the other conditions are true orthe ultimately the entire condition will fail.
Since that's the case, the template will never render if the show off attribute is false.
This behavior can be tricky to wrap your head around.
If that doesn't make sense, you can stick to ternary operators.
We're finished with the header tools block.
The links are now tolerable.
Let's try testing our block by refreshing the experimental page in the Gutenberg Editor.
We can toggle the values to toggle the links in the block.
You can use any combination of values to achieve the desired interface.
Once again, we're using a hack solution for conditionally rendering blocks.
Using the and operator can be a great way to reduce the template size by one line of code.
Let's finish the header tools block in the next lecture.